2006/11 ========================================================================

Finally! We did release 0.1 "genesis". In June 2002 we registered the project
and started thinking. For more than year nothing big happened. In February 2004
the first GStreamer example code landed in CVS. That was using GStreamer 0.8.
Then the metamorphosis began: using GObject, adding unit tests, API docs, user
docs and so on. In August 2005 came the switch to GStreamer 0.10. In summer 2006
our team grew from 2 to 4 developers. The whole project already contains 139000
lines of code.

Even though the current code is maybe a bit rough and the applications are not
that usable yet, we're confident that new releases will follow quickly and bring
the missing pieces. If you want it happen faster, join the project. We have lots
of tasks, some with a fleshed out concept, some merely ideas, some suitable for
not so experienced developers, so quite tricky. Give us a visit on
irc://irc.quakenet.org/buzztard.

2006/10 ========================================================================

Finally I found some time to work one one thing that was getting on my nerves.
For the unit tests we now have a BtTestSettings class. This allows us to
simulate all sort of settings. The other benefit is that we don't need to make
sure that we don't modify user settings during test runs. And we get not hit by
my favourite GConf nastyness anymore [1].

Next I did a lot more bugfixing in the UI - or lets call it implementing
previously unimplemented stuff. Added some more tooltips here and there, syncing
data displays and so on.

Waffel spend some time so set up a buildmaster and a buildslave. This way our
code gets rebuild every 6 hours. The 6 hours cycle has two reasons - our
cvshook-script (from fdo) does not run on sf.net and the sf.net anon-cvs has a
big delay. Anyway even the current setup revealed some bugs, where some of them
are already fixed.

Tommi fights with cairo to build a real pattern editor widget for us. Hope we
can post some screenshots from it soon.

[1] http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=316331

2006/09 ========================================================================

Lots of news this time. Also this time I welcome another team member on board -
Tommi 'nbd' Sakari Uimonen. His first action was a code review of the core lib
and a big patch that const'ified it more. By giving him a quick demo of the
application we also uncovered a lot of bugs. Next nbd will work on a pattern
editor widget.

Berzerka implemented song-length changing. The list will be dynamically expanded
as one scrolls down. Also keyboard shortcuts are coming to set length and move
the loop area.

While we were working on the sequence display, we fixed the step filtering for
different rhythms and also implemented many details for rhythm support (other
than 4/4). Speaking of the GUI - lots of changes there. The machine view looks a
bit nicer and has some zoom and layout fixes. Zoom fit was a bit harder than
expected and seems to be still not always be correct. The context menu to add
machines is now hierarchical. In the status bar we now show CPU usage. At least
during development this is quite useful.

Lots of code has been added to handle error situations better. If you load songs
with missing machines or samples, these components will be tracked. After
loading we present a report of missing elements. Later we can add machine
download or to specify a new location if the sample has been moved or renamed.

Many task were done to prepare a first release. We now have a nice about dialog.
It also shows the latest release notes. This dialog will always be shown once
after updating. The user guide is more complete. German language catalogues are
complete. Finally a lot of cruft code has been removed.

I also worked a bit on the buzz machine emulation. It now also support stereo
machines (need more work on the application side). The example buzz songs have
been fixed. The now all play again. The gstreamer buzzmachine plugin generates
better parameter names. It also maps some parameters to enums. Instead with a
slider, they are presented as a dropdown then.
